---
layout: post
title: New Release 15.10
date: '2015-10-01T19:21:00.000-07:00'
author: Dan Dennedy
tags: 
categories:
- blog
---

Version 15.10 is now available for <a href="{{  "/downloads/" | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}">download</a>. This is a bugfix-only release - no new features. Except, there are new Dutch and Russian translations - thank you, asilnevs and rayanayar.

After the addition of new features such as insert/remove track and a major upgrade to libraries in recent releases, we just wanted to focus further on stabilization and bug-fixing. We have fixed some issues in regions that do not use a period as the decimal mark. Why only some? Well, we are not entirely confident we have reproduced all possible problems. However, we did find and fix a major bug in that area. In addition, when opening a project document, we added a function to look for a malformed project containing both periods and commas in some numeric values. Why only "some?" Because, with filters there are many possible values to locate. In addition, in this first pass on that function, we wanted to be conservative about how heavily we modify the document. Only some fixes are better than horribly mangling it into something useless, right? Thus, only edit timing and size/position rectangle values are repaired. Do not be frightened by this; your original project is not modified. First, you will receive a warning dialog including the option to not repair the project. Also, it makes and uses a copy of your project file with "Repaired" in the new name.

You will also find some fixes for long-standing problems such as:

<ul><li>audio waveforms not appearing correctly for long clips on the timeline,</li><li>drag-n-drop from Windows Explorer not working reliably,</li><li>animated GIFs loading as a still single image,</li><li>crashes opening a project containing a Text filter,</li><li>crashes using the draggable fade controls on the timeline, and</li><li>missing scroll bars around filter parameters.</li></ul>

