---
layout: post
title: Export Frame in new v16.07 Release
author: Dan Dennedy
category: blog
---
**Export Frame** is a new feature in the **File** menu of [Shotcut version
16.07]({{ "/downloads/" | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}). This feature
lets you save the frame currently displayed in the Shotcut viewer as a still
image file in PNG, JPEG, BMP, or WebP format. Simply use an appropriate file
name extension to choose the desired format. This saves the frame as it is shown
including the options in the **Settings** menu and **Filters**.
Upon save, the new file is added to the **Recent** panel to make it convenient
to open and use in Shotcut. This makes it easy to achieve a freeze frame effect.
Simply navigate to the frame you want on the timeline, export it, open it, and
**Paste** it. This also makes it convenient to create a custom thumbnail for
your web video: export a frame, double-click it in **Recent** to open it in the
**Source** viewer, add a text filter to title it, and re-export it.

As usual, there is also a collection a fixes - including for the new version checker,
which did not work on many systems. Trimming on the timeline has been improved.
In previous versions, if you accidentally started a transition while trimming
and changed dragging direction to try to return to a trim operation, it would
behave badly and create an undesired single-frame transition. Not only was that
fixed, but also now you can remove a transition by trimming it away. So,
**Remove transition** is now an action that can appear in your undo **History**
that you can undo and redo.
