---
layout: post
title: Version 16.12
author: Dan Dennedy
category: blog
---
Version 16.12 was released today and is available for [**DOWNLOAD**]({{ "/downloads/" | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}).

* Added **Constrained VBR** for the video codec rate control mode to Export.
* Added **Fixed** option to video **GOP** to Export.
* New audio mixing mode that does not affect levels.
* Increased usage of floating point for audio processing to improve quality.
* Added **Occitan** translation.
* More fixes for copying filters and LUT (3D) video filter.

**More About the New Audio Mixing**

The first thing you need to know about the new mixing mode is that it only
applies to new projects. You might have already adjusted volume levels in
existing projects, and we did not want to affect that.

Versions before 16.10 used a mixing technique that tried to be clever
about generally preserving the levels of all sources without clipping, but it was
discovered that it
[may introduce artifacts](https://github.com/mltframework/shotcut/issues/259).
So, versions 16.10 and 16.11 switched to a simpler method that adds samples,
but it was also averaging them to avoid clipping, which was found to [adversely affect
levels](https://github.com/mltframework/shotcut/issues/325). So, the new
approach in this version is to simply add samples.

As a result, you may experience [clipping](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clipping_(audio)).
Now, as long as there is so-called
headroom in the level each of source, this should rarely be a problem because
high level samples from each source are rarely correlated. Here is where the **Normalize**
filters are your friends because not only do they bring all sources to the same
level, but the default target level includes headroom. In addition to listening
for clipping, you can visually monitor it using the **Peak Meter** and/or
**Audio Waveform** scope in the View menu.

If each source has headroom in its level but you still experience clipping,
you can add a **Gain/Volume** filter to the Timeline - select the cornerstone
at the top, left of the Timeline and use the Filters panel. This is like the
Master Out gain control on a mixing console. Reduce the gain until you eliminate
the clipping. If you find that you need to lower the gain more than you like
try adding the **Limiter** filter.
