---
layout: post
title: New Release 18.08.01
author: Dan Dennedy
category: blog
---

Version 18.08.01 is now available for [**DOWNLOAD**]({{ "/downloads/" | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }})!

This release primarily contains only bug fixes, which were strongly needed after
a few releases with major additions and changes:

* Added the timecode of failure to the **Jobs** panel when an export job fails
  (makes locating problem areas in the project easier).
* Added an **Unpremultiply Alpha** video filter (handy to fix compositing for
  video clips with an alpha channel that has had its color pre-multiplied with
  its alpha).
* Fixed various crash regressions since v18.05.
* Fixed audio distortion during preview (regression in v18.07).
* Fixed custom **Export** presets broken if name contains parentheses
  (regression in v18.07).
* Fixed **Properties > Reverse...** broken if numeric region setting uses comma
  for decimal (regression in v18.07).
* Fixed **Overlay HTML** editor easily destroys default scripts (introduced in
  v18.07) if **WebVfx JavaScript extension** enabled.
* Fixed custom interlaced **Export** presets loading as progressive (regression
  in v18.07)
* Fixed **Timeline > Copy Timeline to Source > Export** fails on unsaved
  (Untitled) project.
* Fixed **Text** filter has aliased edges (regression in v18.07).
* Fixed **Stabilize** video filter not available on Linux (regression since v18.06).
* Fixed changing **Speed** in **Properties** breaks all filters on that clip
  (regression since v18.05).
* Fixed **Fade Out Video** (and keyframes in general) broken on still images
  whose in point is > 0 (regression since v18.03).
* Fixed accuracy of **Properties > Duration** for image clip on the timeline.
* Some fixes for changing **Settings > Video Mode** after starting a project.
* Fixed compositing of upper video tracks becomes broken if bottom video track
  is deleted.
* Fixed images with alpha channel (e.g. PNG) on upper video tracks have dark
  edges after compositing if the **Size and Position** or **Rotate and Scale**
  filters are not used.
