---
layout: post
title: "New Version 19.07"
author: Dan Dennedy
category: blog
---

Version 19.07 is now available for [**DOWNLOAD**]({{ "/downloads/" | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }})!


This version is mostly just bug fixes and minor improvements.

## Changes and Improvements

- Changed **Average Bitrate** for libopus audio codec to set vbr to constrained.
- Changed **Crop: Source** to use the source clip's resolution as maximum for
parameters.
- Changed the **Convert to Edit-friendly** and **Reverse** "better" option from
ProRes to DNxHR, which is faster.
- Changed the **Convert to Edit-friendly** and **Reverse** "best" option from
FFV1 to Ut Video, which is faster.
- Improved full range handling in **Convert to Edit-friendly** and **Reverse**
by respecting an override in **Properties > Color Range**.
- Improved detection of full range color in video clips.
- Changed ripple move on the Timeline to push the clips when the drop zone is a gap.
- Added " - Converted" into the suggested file name when using **Properties >
Convert to Edit-friendly...**
- Added a status message at the start of opening a project.
- Added a drop-down of common frame rates to **Export** and **Custom Video Mode**.
- Added a dialog to ask if the standard, fractional frame rate was intended in
**Export** and **Custom Video Mode**.
- Added a **HD 1080p 50 fps** video mode.

## Fixes

- Fixed **Timer** video filter shows incorrect decimals.
- Fixed clips that become INVALID were saved as uneditable text clips.
- Fixed a crash in **Wave** video filter.
- Fixed a crash when changing clip **Speed** to something very low.
- Fixed long **Projects folder** path in the **New Project** view.
- Fixed the temporary backup file is empty when saving MLT XML.
- Fixed saving existing project on Dropbox gives an error.
- Fixed advanced keyframes removed when trimming.
- Fixed loading the frame rate from an export preset.
- Fixed multiple **Stabilize** video filter analysis jobs may try to write to
the same .stab file.
- Fixed reported timecode of failed **Export** job if (**Frames/sec** is not 25
  or not changed in **Advanced > Video**).
- Fixed incorrect audio waveform after **Undo** after insert/paste into **Timeline**.
- Fixed filters added to a clip with a transition are not the correct length and
not active during the transition.
- Fixed **Blur: Gaussian** filter makes bottom 3 rows of the image with black or
garbage.
- Fixed help text in the **New Project** view may be truncated without scroll bar.
- Fixed **Crop: Circle** > Radius = 100% not completely extended.
- Fixed loading image sequences that do not put leading zeroes into their number
(bug introduced in v19.06).
