---
layout: post
title: "New Version 19.09: Multiselect and More Filters"
author: Dan Dennedy
category: blog
---

Version 19.09 is now available for [**DOWNLOAD**]({{ "/download/" | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }})!

## New Features

- Added multi-select to **Playlist** as welll as **Select All** (Ctrl+Shift+A)
and **Select None** (Ctrl+Shift+D) to its menu.
- Added multi-select to **Timeline**, which is currently limited to the 
remove/delete and lift operations.
- Added **Select All** (Ctrl+A) and **Select None** (Ctrl+D) to the **Timeline**
menu.
- Added new video filters:
  - **Dither**
  - **Halftone**
  - **Posterize**
  - **Threshold**
  - **Elastic Scale** (non-linear horizontal scaling)
  - **Blend Mode** (overrides the track **Properties > Blend mode** for that clip)

  <video width="640" height="360" autoplay="autoplay" loop="loop">
    <source src="{{ "/assets/videos/v19.09.mp4" | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}" type="video/mp4">
  </video>

  &nbsp;
- Added the option **Play After Open** (default on) to the playlist menu.
- Added keyboard shortcuts for some existing **Timeline** menu actions:
  - **Insert Track** (Ctrl+Alt+I)
  - **Remove Track** (Ctrl+Alt+U)
  - **Copy Timeline to Source** (Ctrl+Alt+C)
- Added a **Galician** translation.

## Fixes

- Fixed a crash in some audio filters when using 1 or 6 channels.
- Fixed showing language **English (Great Britain)** when
**English (United States)** is chosen.
- Fixed a crash bug in v19.06 when changing image sequence **Repeat** in
**Properties**.
- Fixed a bug in v19.08 where dropping a video into **Playlist** on a new
project does not update the **Automatic Video Mode**.
- Fixed a bug in v19.08 in the on-screen rectangle control (as used in **Text:
Simple** and **Size and Position** filters among a few others).
- Fixed changing speed of a clip with a colon in the file name.
- Fixed reading MLT XML with a colon in the file name of a relative path.
- Fixed the playlist menu button disabled after removing all clips.
- Fixed reloading **Fade In Video** or **Fade Out Video** using opacity may
alter the colors.
- Fixed **Convert to Edit-friendly** failing on GoPro videos.
- Fixed filters during a transition are truncated after a **Split** on the
timeline.
- Fixed a bug in v19.08 where **Keyframes** becomes broken after trimming on the
timeline.

## Changes and Improvements

- Reduced the size of the installation by 255 MiB!
- Upgraded FFmpeg to v4.2.
- Increased export process priority on Windows from Low (idle) to Below Normal.
- Changed default HEVC quality to 45% so the x265 crf matches its default of 28.
- Added the clip's name to the end of a clip in **Timeline** if its block is
wide enough.
- No longer seek after dropping a clip from the player to the **Timeline**.
