---
layout: post
title: "New Version 19.04: Fun New Video Effects"
author: Dan Dennedy
category: blog
---

Version 19.04 is now available for [**DOWNLOAD**]({{ "/download/" | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }})!

This version is the usual roundup of recent fixes and minor feature additions.
The development team especially thanks forum members @Paul2, @sauron, and @DRM
for their contributions to this release.

## New Features

- Added (creation) **Date** column to Playlist **Details** view.
- Added **Set File Date...** to the Playlist menu and item context menu.
- Added **Sort By Name** and **Sort By Date** to the Playlist menu.  
  These are single-shot sorting commands. The playlist is still fixed-ordering.
  The new options do not automatically sort new playlist entries.
- Added new video filters:
  * **Grid**
  * **Audio Dance Visualization**
  * **Audio Light Visualization**
  * **RGB Shift**
  * **Glitch**
  * **Distort**
  <video width="640" height="360" autoplay="autoplay" loop="loop">
    <source src="{{ "/assets/videos/v19.04.mp4" | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}" type="video/mp4">
  </video>

  &nbsp;
- Added **Zoom 300%, 400%, 500%, 750%, and 1000%** to the player's zoom menu.
- Added **Settings > Drawing Method > Software (Mesa)** on Windows.  
  This is not good for performance, but it improves compatibility. Use only as
  a last resort.
- Added **Display Method > OpenGL** or **Software (Mesa)** on Linux.
- Added **Norwegian Nynorsk** translation.

## Fixes

- Fixed reading some AVCHD files after a camcorder splits.
- Cosmetic fixes for timecode spinner and toolbar icons on high DPI systems.
- Bundled libnsl for Linux to fix Fedora.
- Fixed **Video Waveform** scope graticule not showing on non-dark theme.
- Fixed incorrect compositing z-order after **Insert Track**.
- Fixed cosmetic problem with main toolbar using **System** theme on macOS.
- Fixed current track changes after inserting or overwriting a clip in Timeline.
- Fixed absolute paths can be introduced on Windows when using a project folder.
- Fixed sometimes showing forward slashes for file paths on Windows.
- Fixed first clip does not start at beginning when drop to Timeline after
  **File > New** or **File > Close**.
- Fixed **Properties > Convert** and **Reverse** on files with album art or
  embedded thumbnail.
- Fixed a possible crash on **File > New** or **File > Close**.
- Fixed filters on clips not extended into transition when adding a transition
  by trimming or resizing a transition.
- Fixed **Open Other > ALSA Audio** on toolbar on Linux.
- Fixed changing **Properties > Speed** or **Color Range** on a timeline clip
  may crash.
- Fixed timeline correction when drag clip to another track and then back to
  original.
- Fixed reloading the **Mask: From File** filter resets **Threshold** keyframes.
- Fixed the **Mask: Simple Shape** filter does not work when **Width** or
  **Height** is 0%.

## Changes and Improvements

- Increased parameter ranges in the **Rotate and Scale** filter.
- Added verification that saved MLT XML is well-formed XML before (over-)writing
  the target file.
- Changed default **Outline Thickness** (3) and alpha of **Text** filter to
  match **Open Other > Text** and prevent a problem where the text outline is
  aliased when the clip is transparent.
- Changed the version check to use HTTPS for increased privacy.
- Added DLL redirection files for other .exe programs on Windows to prioritize
  Shotcut-provided DLLs over those in system or $path.
- Removed the buggy **Merge with next clip** from Timeline clip context menu.
