---
layout: post
title: "New Version 19.06: International Projects"
author: Dan Dennedy
category: blog
---

Version 19.06 is now available for [**DOWNLOAD**]({{ "/download/" | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }})!

## Changes and Improvements

- **Changed project file to use period for decimal point regardless of OS locale
(region/language setting).**  
This applies to new projects only. Old projects load and run same as before
including saving.
- Changed **Export > From** to show **Source** instead of base file name.
- Improved Export Job progress and estimated time remaining.
- Changed **Timeline** ruler interval to 5 seconds.
- Renamed video filter **Circular Frame** to **Crop: Circle**.
- Renamed video filter **Crop** to **Crop: Source**.
- Renamed video filter **Text** to **Text: Simple**.
- Renamed video filter **3D Text** to **Text: 3D**.
- Renamed video filter **Overlay HTML** to **Text: HTML**.
- Renamed video filter **Blur** to **Blur: Box**.
- Renamed **Reduce Noise** video filter to **Reduce Noise: Smart Blur**.
- Changed the default for **Settings > Display Method** back to **DirectX** on
Windows.
- Changed maximum duration of **Color**, **Text**, and **Color Bars** clips to
4 hours.
- Added **Jobs** to the main toolbar.
- Reordered panel buttons on main toolbar to match **View** menu.
- Increased maximum value of Timer filter's Start Delay, Duration, and Offset
to 24 hours.

## New Features

- Added **View > Show Text Under Icons** to menu.
- Added **View > Show Small Icons** to menu.
- Added support for alpha channel to **Crop: Circle**.
- Added **Crop: Rectangle** video filter with support for alpha channel.
- Added **Add Keyframe** button in Keyframes (only on parameters that show a
  curve UI).
- Added **Ripple All** button to **Timeline** toolbar.
- Added keyboard shortcuts Ctrl+0-9 to toggle the panels.
- Added Alt 0/+/- shortcuts to adjust the zoom in **Keyframes**.
- Added a vertical **Flip** video filter.
- Added **Blur: Exponential** video filter (fast and bleeds to edges).
- Added **Blur: Low Pass** video filter (fast and bleeds to edges).
- Added **Blur: Gaussian** video filter (slow and bleeds to edges).
- Added **Reduce Noise: HQDN3D** video filter.
- Added **Noise: Fast** video filter.
- Added **Noise: Keyframes** video filter.
- Added Swedish translation.

## Fixes

- Fixed deleting the project file if there was a save error.
- Fixed reliability of **Settings > Display Method > Software** on Windows.
- Fixed **Crop: Source** filter not working with **Color** clip.
- Fixed using filters on **Color Bars** and other generator clips.
- Fixed audio filters (**Compressor, Expander, Limiter, Notch, Reverb**) broken\
on comma for decimal.
- Fixed alpha video opaque on gaps in **Timeline**.
- Fixed **Convert/Reverse** if there no audio track.
- Fixed **Measure Video Quality** broken.
- Fixed saving the app directory in XML. 
- Fixed **Alpha: Adjust > Invert** checkbox on reload.
- Fixed color eye-dropper (picker) error.
- Fixed audio **Pan** filter channel resets on reload.
- Fixed a crash using **Mirror** filter before **Rotate and Scale** or **Size
and Position**.
- Fixed poor reverse audio quality for mp4 and mkv options.
- Fixed Simple Scroll HTML template may not scroll Up or Left completely.
