---
layout: post
title: "New Version 19.08"
author: Dan Dennedy
category: blog
---

Version 19.08 is now available for [**DOWNLOAD**]({{ "/downloads/" | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }})!


This version continues to rework and refine existing features in the areas of video stabilization, audio normalization, converting and reversing files, external monitoring, and most significantly: the playlist.

## Playlist

- Changed **Playlist > Open As Clip** to simply **Open**. This action now opens the playlist item directly in the **Source** player, and all changes made in **Source** (trim in/out), **Properties**, **Filters**, and **Keyframes** apply to the playlist item immediately without an explicit update.
- Added **Playlist > Copy** that opens a copy of the playlist item in **Source** just like the old behavior. This is useful if you want to trim out another shot from the same source clip or create a different sub-clip with different filtering.
- Changed double-click on a playlist item to **Open** the clip instead of **Copy** it.
- Added keyboard shortcut `Shift+C` to **Copy** a playlist item.
- Now, when you drag a clip from **Playlist** to **Timeline** the timeline shows an appropriately-size box on a track.

## Filters

- Fixed a performance regression (since v19.06) in the following filters: **Chroma Hold, Flip, LUT 3D, Mirror, Noise: Fast, Reduce Noise: Smart Blur**.
- Fixed reloading the filter UI for **Rutt-Etra-Izer**, **Text: 3D**, and **Text: HTML** resets the filter trimming in **Keyframes**.
- Added support for keyframes to the **Lens Correction** and **Mosaic** video filters.
- Fixed **Swirl** when maximum = 0%
- Changed the minimum values for **Mosaic** to 0%.
- Removed the scrolling animation from the **Blank Web Animations** HTML template.
- Fixed pasting filters changes the trim and keyframes of the existing filters.
- Fixed **Crop: Circle** and **Crop: Rectangle** not clearing the canvas resulting in trails in some situations.
- Fixed color incorrect when using the **LUT 3D** filter with some other filters following it.

- Fixed reliability of the **Stabilize** video filter to write its results (.stab) file.
- Fixed showing vidstab.trf as a missing file.
- Fixed updating **Stabilize** and **Normalize: Two Pass** results to clips copied between **Source**, **Playlist**, and **Timeline**.
- Added the ability for the **Stabilize** and **Normalize: Two Pass** filters' analysis jobs to update pending export jobs.
- Added the option to run pending **Stabilize** and **Normalize: Two Pass** filters' analysis jobs on export. This only works for **Stabilize** if you are using the project folder feature. Or, if not using the project folder feature, you must click **Analyze** to assign a results file name, but you can stop the analysis job.

The combination of the above fixes and changes means you can now easily batch convert files while applying image stabilization and audio normalization!

## Properties

- Added support for interlace output to **Properties > Reverse** and **Convert to Edit-friendly** including overrides for **Scan mode** and field order.
- Improved detection of interlaced video in some files such as Ut Video in Matroska.
- Added **Comments** to image properties along with a menu button with: Copy Full File Path, Show in Folder, and Set Creation Time...

## External Monitor

- Add resolution and refresh rates to the screens in **Settings > External Monitor** to make them easier to differentiate.
- Fixed switching between different external screens on the same GPU.
- Fixed external screen not showing on correct screen in some arrangements.

## Export

- Changed the default video quality to 55% for the **Default** and **YouTube** presets. This aligns with the x264 default crf of 23 and produces a smaller file that most people desire for upload without significant quality loss.
- Added text after **Export > Advanced > Codec > Quality** to show the generated codec-specific quality level (e.g. crf for x264).
- Fixed **Stream** broken by check for writable file.

## Other

- Fixed double-click in **Recent Projects** loading twice.
- Fixed disabling meters in the **Audio Loudness** scope not shrinking space.
- Added version metadata to the AppImage for Linux.
- Added md5sums.txt and sha256sums.txt to the GitHub releases page.
- Added saving **Timeline** track height to configuration, not only a project file.
- Fixed trimming an unselected clip in **Timeline** does not correctly adjust its filters.
- Changed **Settings > Interpolation > Nearest Neighbor** to no longer relax seek accuracy. Instead, seek accuracy is now relaxed only during trick playback (reverse, rewind, fast forward).
- Added a **Korean** translation.
