---
layout: post
title: "New Version 19.12: Move Freely"
author: Dan Dennedy
category: blog
---

Version 19.12 is now available for [**DOWNLOAD**]({{ "/download/" | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }})!

This version makes the **Timeline** much more flexible. Previously, you could
only move a clip to a blank spot on the timeline, or the move operation would be
rejected and the clip would snap back to its original location. This is no
longer restricted, and you can move anywhere as if you were inserting or
overwriting with a new clip. Of course, you need to be more careful now! Also,
when using drag-n-drop to make a transition, previously you could not have a gap
in the timeline between the two clips. Now, you can drag over a gap and overlap
the clips to make the transition (but still only for _neighboring_ clips on the
same track, by design.) These two improvements were needed to support the
ability to move multiple clips at once. We expect to include that in the first
version of 2020. Meanwhile, there were some important fixes to get out and
changes for people to adjust to.

## New

- Added 3 new filters:
  * **Gradient** video filter
  *  **Scan Lines** video filter
  * **Noise Gate** audio filter
- Added a new color gradient control to the following filters:
  * **Audio Light Visualization**
  * **Audio Spectrum Visualization**
  * **Audio Waveform Visualization**
- Added **View > Scopes >  Video Zoom**.
- Added **Reverse** checkbox to the **Mask: From File** filter.
- Added **Remove Finished** to the **Jobs** menu.
- Added **Playlist > Update Thumbnails**.
- Added **Update Thumbnails** to the timeline video clip menu.
- Added keyboard shortcut <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>Escape</kbd> to give the player
  focus (take focus away from certain widgets).
- Added a **Two Column Scroll** template to the **Text: HTML** filter (convenient
  for film-style credits).

## Fixes

- Fixed **Scale** animation not linear in the **Rotate & Scale** filter.
- Fixed audio crackles in first couple of seconds of export.
- Fixed <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>A</kbd> selects all in **Playlist** as well as Timeline.
- Fixed the size and position of the **Text: HTML** editor with **Settings >
  External Monitor** enabled.
- Fixed drag-n-drop from **Playlist** to **Timeline** sometimes reorders the **Playlist**.
- Fixed **Color Grading** and **Contrast** creates a weird color after deleting
  a keyframe.
- Fixed updating `x265-params` in **Export > Other** after making changes in **Codec**.
- Fixed opening another project in the same session breaks master track filters.
- Fixed saving a preset with a slash in the name.
- Fixed export fails if the system temporary directory is not writable.
- Fixed removing some temporary files on exit.
- Fixed the timeline **Ripple All Tracks** option was not saved with history
  (before the current setting used during undo and redo).
- Fixed an image sequence in **Export > From > Playlist** may show "INVALID" on export.
- Fixed changing **Properties** (for example, image duration) not updating the **Playlist**.
- Fixed snapping to horizontal grid lines.
- Fixed **Timeline** clip context menu > **Properties** broken in v19.09.
- Fixed bad transitions created by trimming beyond media beginning or end.
- Fixed audio does not follow default device changes on Windows.
- Fixed changing the speed of the clip on the right side of a transition creates
  INVALID transition.
- Fixed track filters were not restored when undoing a **Remove Track**.

## Changes

- Changed the minimum of the **Gain/Volume** filter to -70 dB.
- Removed **Settings > Deinterlacer > YADIF**. (This was causing crashes, and
  this option only affects preview, not export.)
- Changed the **Timeline** and **Keyframes** toolbars to respond to **View >
  Small** Icons.
- Added a limit to undo **History** configurable to new configuration key
  `undoLimit` that defaults to 1000.
- Upgraded Mesa software OpenGL in Windows build to version 19.2.7.
- Upgraded SDL audio output library in Windows build to version 2.0.10.
