---
layout: post
title: "New Version 19.10: New Time-based Filters"
author: Dan Dennedy
category: blog
---

Version 19.10 is now available for [**DOWNLOAD**]({{ "/download/" | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }})!

## New Features

- Added new video **Filters**:
  - **Choppy**
  - **Nervous** (a random selection of previous and current frame)
  - **No Sync**
  - **Trails**
  - **Vertigo**
- Added **Keyframes** toolbar buttons and keyboard shortcuts for filter-trimming
and simple keyframes:
  * [ = set the filter start
  * ] = set the filter end
  * { = set the first simple keyframe
  * } = set the second simple keyframe
  * Alt+[ = seek previous simple keyframe
  * Alt+] = seek next simple keyframe
- Added keyboard shortcuts for **Filters**:
  * F = open the Filters panel and filter chooser. (At this point search has
focus and the first filter is selected...)
  * Up/Down - select the previous or next filter in the list
  * Enter = add the selected filter to the list
  * Shift+F = remove the selected filter from the list
- Added Thai translation.

## Fixes

- Fixed **Open Other > Audio/Video Device** capture (broken in v19.09).
- Fixed a crash in **Timeline** when you **Lift** the first clip in a track
  (broken in v19.09).
- Fixed automatic configuration of VA-API for **Export > Use hardware encoder**
  (broken in v19.09).
- Fixed **Blend Mode** filter affects other clips on the track (if the track
    **Properties > Blend mode** was not changed).
- Fixed adding keyframes to some video filters into area after extending the clip:
  - **Text: Simple**
  - **Rotate and Scale**
  - **Size and Position**
- Fixed color picker not automatically changing alpha from 0 to 255.
- Fixed a restarted job reports stopped when completed successfully.
- Fixed HTML file names with extended UTF-8 chars on Linux.
- Fixed **Timeline** audio waveform after changing **Properties > Audio > Track**.
- Fixed a crash opening a project that includes itself by making a self-repair
  on open.
- Fixed saving the length property in MLT XML as a time value independent of
  frame rate.
- Fixed changing **Video Mode** of an opened project breaks timing of edits.
- Fixed **Timeline** ruler not synchronized with the tracks' scroll after
  resizing panel or window.
- Fixed **Timeline > Undo** after splitting the second clip of a transition
  corrupts the timeline.

## Changes

- Use the main video stream by default when there is an embedded
  album/poster/thumbnail.
- Minor improvements to the **ProRes Export** preset.
- Improved performance of some video filters when using parallel processing:
  - **Blur: Exponential, Gaussian, Low Pass**
  - **Glow**
  - **Mask: Simple Shape**
  - **Reduce Noise: HQDN3D**
  - **Sharpen**
- Improved performance of track blending in areas with transparency.
- Reduced the free disk space check to 25 GB.
- Opening Matroska files containing HuffYUV or Ut Video is much faster.
- **Timeline** waveforms are dimmed instead of hidden when track is muted.
- Changed RGB video clip **Properties > Color range** to **Full** and disabled.
- Changed **Properties > Reverse** and **Convert to Edit-friendly** best option
  (MKV) to use PCM for audio.
- Changed the **Export > lossless > Ut Video** preset to the **matroska** format.
- The signed macOS app is now notarized.
