---
layout: post
title: "New Version 20.11.28"
author: Dan Dennedy
category: blog
---

Version 20.11.28 is now available for [**DOWNLOAD**]({{ "/download/" | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }})!

The main purpose of the 20.11 release is to address problems as a result of the major changes to our main app library
and build processes as mentioned in previous release.

### Fixes

- Fixed running on macOS 11.0 Big Sur.
- Fixed **Properties > Reverse** job always fails (broke in v20.10).
- Fixed dropping multiple files to **Timeline** (broke in v20.10).
- Fixed **Timeline, Keyframes, and Text: Rich** editor menus and drop-downs in all filters not showing on systems with multiple monitors (broke in v20.10).
- Fixed drop-downs in all filters not showing the correct value when the filter is reselected (broke in v20.10).
- Fixed appearance of **Settings > Theme > System** on Windows and macOS (broke in v20.10).
- Fixed text looks too big in Windows with display scale 150% (regression in v20.10).
- Fixed **Size, Position & Rotate** filter when a size value becomes 0, possibly while editing the field (broke in v20.10).
- Fixed some library dependencies not bundled in Linux (broke in v20.10).
- Fixed **Size, Position & Rotate** distorting the aspect ratio when image width or height > 16000 (broke in v20.10).
- Fixed clicking Open in LUT filter on Linux Snap crashes (broke in v20.10).
- Fixed bad performance regression and high memory usage when automatically scrolling timeline during  playback (regression in v20.09).
- Reduced memory usage on systems with more than 8 CPU threads.
- Fixed high memory usage when increase **Properties > Speed** large amount with **Pitch Compensation** on.
- Fixed showing the convert dialog twice when dropping files to **Timeline**.
- Fixed **Size, Position & Rotate** filter behavior in generated slideshow.
- Fixed hiding a filter's VUI when the playhead is not over the filtered clip.
- Fixed a possible crash when audio waveforms are updated in the background.
- Fixed simple keyframes for **Stretch X & Y** parameters of **Corner Pin** video filter.
- Fixed some of the undo buttons in the **Corner Pin** video filter.
- Fixed jagged edges on text in the **Text: Rich** editor.
- Fixed cursor disappears between some characters in the **Text: Rich** editor.
- Fixed proxy generation when video includes cover art/thumbnail.
- Fixed a possible crash when drag clip to empty timeline after closing a project with multiple tracks.

### Changes

- Improved behavior when press enter/return in the current position timecode field.
- Made it is easier to choose opaque black in the color chooser dialogs.
- Changed numeric fields in **Size, Position & Rotate** and **Text: Rich** to require <kbd>Enter</kbd>, <kbd>Tab</kbd>, or click outside (de-focus) to apply the change. This prevents the filter going to weird or undesired sizes or positions as you enter values.
- Changed **Text: Rich** default size and postion to have a 10% margin inside the frame.

### New

- Added a warning dialog when the computer is getting low on available memory.
- Added **Properties > menu > Set Equirectangular...**.
- Added a **Start Offset** time parameter and **Apply transform** option to the **360: Stabilize** video filter.
- Added a **Show Grid** option to the **360: Transform** video filter as a visual aid.
- Added a dialog to confirm trying to add or paste filters to **Timeline > Output**.
- Added **Move Up**, **Move Down**, and **Deselect** buttons to **Filters**.
- Added command line option `--QT_SCALE_FACTOR_ROUNDING_POLICY` that accepts values:
  `Round, Ceil, Floor, RoundPreferFloor, PassThrough`.
  The default is `Round` except on Windows where it is `RoundPreferFloor`, which makes it treat 150% like 100% to reduce the UI text size.
