---
layout: post
title: "New Version 20.09.27"
author: Dan Dennedy
category: blog
---

Version 20.09.27 is now available for [**DOWNLOAD**]({{ "/download/" | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }})!

This version fixes some major bugs in the previous version 20.09.13 and improves the usability of the new Rich Text
video filter.

**This is the last version to support 32-bit Windows and macOS 10.10 and 10.11.**

#### Regressions In Version 20.09.13

- Fixed the file dialogs in various filters not openening on macOS.
- Fixed setting color alpha (opacity) to 0 in **Open Other > Color** and **Open Other > Text**.
- Fixed a possible crash when using **Center bias** in the **Crop: Source** filter.

#### Text: Rich Video Filter

- Fixed incorrect font size in export on Windows when the system **Settings > Display > Scale
  and layout** is higher than 100% (High DPI).
- Fixed problems when **Export > Video > Parallel processing** is on.
- Added collpase & expand buttons to the editor's toolbar.
- Added an **Overflow** parameter to allow text longer (taller) than the rectangle.
- Added **Paste Text Only** to the editor's menu to faciliate pasting from a word processor or web browser **without**
  applying the source formatting.
- Fixed the **Scroll Up** and **Scroll Down** presets when the background is not transparent.
- Added a **Lower Third** preset to **Text: Rich**.

#### Other

- Fixed the actual workspace layout may not match the currently selected layout when restarting after a crash.
- Fixed **Filters** and **Keyframes** broken on **Source** clip after changing **Settings > Video Mode**.
