---
layout: post
title: "New Version 20.10.31: Qt 5.15 Upgrade"
author: Dan Dennedy
category: blog
---

Version 20.10.31 is now available for [**DOWNLOAD**]({{ "/download/" | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }})!

## HTML5 Removal And Qt Upgrade

In the [previous version]({{ "/blog/new-release-200913/" | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }}), we announced
the plan to remove the dated and deprecated HTML5 technology and related filters. Now, it has been completely removed in
order to make it easier to upgrade our core UI library Qt. This major version upgrade includes many bug and security
fixes as well as performance improvements. Linux users will notice a big improvement for high DPI display scale > 100%.
This upgrade also makes it easier for non-team members to contribute.

- Removed QtWebKit and WebVfx (HTML5 components) from all builds.
- Upgraded Qt to version 5.15.1 on Linux and Windows and version 5.12.9 on macOS.
  As a result, **the minimum macOS version is now 10.12**.
- Updated Linux build to a Ubuntu 18.04 base (glibc version 2.27).
- Completely new Windows build based on msys2, and **discontinued the 32-bit Windows build**.
- Migrated Windows and Linux builds to GitHub Actions, and automated builds of AppImage and snap for Linux.

## New

- Added **Invert** (reverse polarity) audio filter.
- Added showing the job progress in **Windows taskbar** icon. (thanks @lolametro!)
- Added **Size, Position & Rotate > Zoom** now works in any **Size mode**!
- Added **Scroll to Playhead on Zoom** to **Keyframes** menu.
- Added converting **Text: HTML** filters to **Text: Rich**.
  This does not retain full fidelity, but hopefully it retains the text.
- Added using the H.264 hardware encoder if HEVC not available when **Proxy > Use Hardware Encoder** is on.
- Added **Scroll to Playhead on Zoom** option to **Timeline** menu.
- Added ability to change position in **Size, Position & Rotate** by dragging anywhere inside the rectangle while also
  holding <kbd>Shift</kbd>.
- Added rectangle VUI help tips for various video filters.
- Added keyboard shortcut for **Center the Playhead**: Ctrl+Shift+P.
- Added keyboard shortcut for **Scroll to Playhead on Zoom**: Ctrl+Alt+P.
- Added keyboard shortcut for rich text editor **Paste Text Only**:  Ctr+Shift+V
- Added common preset resolutions and aspect ratios to the **Add Custom Video Mode** dialog.

## Changes

- Improved image quality when using **Size, Position & Rotate**.
- Improved **Text: Rich** filter export on Windows and Linux when display scale is fractional (e.g. 150%).
- Improved the performance of the **Fade In Video**, **Fade Out Video**, and **Brightness** filters on multicore systems.
- Changed **Export > Codec > Dual pass** to not write a video file for the first pass.
- Removed "Shotcut" as default text in **Text: Rich** filter.
- Reduced memory usage in **Export** with many clips.

## Fixes

- Fixed a compatibility issue for some systems by downgrading FFmpeg to version 4.2 (regression in v20.09).
- Improved the **Timeline** scrolling speed and smoothness (regression in v20.09).
- Fixed time rulers hiding on vertical scroll in **Timeline** and **Keyframes** (regression in v20.09).
- Fixed **Crop: Rectangle > Corner radius** not exactly the same as in version 20.07 (regression in v20.09).
- Fixed **Blur: Pad incorrect** after splitting clip.
- Fixed moving the cursor in filter fields may move playhead.
- Fixed **Filters** allowed pasting filters when nothing selected.
- Fixed saving projects to Dropbox on Windows leaves temporary files.
- Fixed saving the current stock layout when switching to a custom layout.
- Fixed progress dialog appears over the convert variable frame rate dialog when dragging to **Timeline**.
- Fixed dropping file with comma in its name to **Timeline**.
- Fixed delete keyframe button in **Keyframes** may remove keyframe for another parameter.
- Fixed convert dialog for variable frame rate never appears if dragged directly to non-empty playlist or timeline.
- Fixed a crash dragging multiple clips to **Timeline** if some are variable frame rate.
- Fixed the **Blur: Pad** filter appearing correctly if used that option in slideshow generator.
- Fixed zooming in near end of timeline scrolls timeline backward.
- Fixed deleting all text in **Text: Rich** filter changes font to very small black.
- Fixed editor toolbar in **Text: Rich** filter usually overlays the text by default.
