---
layout: post
title: "New Version 21.05.18"
author: Dan Dennedy
category: blog
---

Version 21.05.18 is now available for [**DOWNLOAD**]({{ "/download/" | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }})!

This is a bug fix release to address the major problems found in version 21.05.01 after release.

#### WARNING

Projects created with this version can **NOT** be directly loaded by a **previous** version. Only versions 21.02 and
21.03 can **repair** projects created in this version by removing all Time Remap filters.

#### New Bugs (in version 21.05.01)

- Fixed a "requires newer version" dialog appears when opening a corrupt project.
- Fixed some systems unable to load video clips by downgrading FFmpeg to version 4.2.
- Fixed crash with **File > Open MLT XML as Clip**.
- Fixed "INVALID" appears in export after **Copy Timeline to Source** or with old project that includes MLT XML as Clip.
- Fixed many extra keyframes are created as video plays for any filter with on-video controls: Text: Simple, Text: Rich,
  Timer, Audio Visualization, Size Position & Rotate, Crop: Rectangle or Cirle, Spot Remover, etc.
- Fixed **Settings > Use JACK Audio**.
- Changed export jobs to use `melt-7` on Linux.
- Added changing a **Keyframes** parameter's vertical zoom range when its value is changed.
- Fixed **Time Remap > Image mode** reverts to **Nearest** when reloading the filter.

#### Recent Bugs

- Fixed being unable to enter numeric values larger than 999 in some filters.
- Fixed **Crop: Source > Center bias** not working with media lower resolution than the video mode.

#### Old Bugs

- Fixed presets with many keyframes not loading all keyframes.
- Fixed **Properties > Image sequence** does not turn off an image's proxy resulting in a broken sequence.
- Fixed the initial state of **View > Full Screen** on Windows.
- Fixed adding a custom **Export** preset does not reload correctly.
- Fixed the **About Shotcut** window title missing shows "%1" instead of "Shotcut".

#### Minor Additions or Changes

- Added shortcut <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>T</kbd> to focus the timecode field below the player.
- Added **Romanian** to **Settings > Language**.
- Added a restart dialog to **Settings > Theme**.