---
layout: post
title: "New Version 21.06.29"
author: Dan Dennedy
category: blog
---

Version 21.06.29 is now available for [**DOWNLOAD**](https://github.com/mltframework/shotcut/releases/tag/v21.06.29)!

This is the second bug fix release to address the major problems found in version 21.05.01 after release.

#### WARNING

Projects created with this version can **NOT** be directly loaded by a **previous** version. Only versions 21.02 and
21.03 can **repair** projects created in this version by removing all Time Remap filters.

#### Minor Additions or Changes

- Added **Speed** parameter to the **Timer** video filter.
- Added keyboard shortcuts to switch between the stock layouts: <kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>1</kbd> through <kbd>6</kbd>.
- Added **Import** button to **Playlist**. (Thanks, @hbtalha!)
- Added an **Apply** button next to **Properties > Speed** to improve workflow when using mouse wheel.

#### New Bugs (in version 21.05)

- Fixed playback may hang when playing different **Playlist** items.
- Fixed **alpha** presets in **Export**.
- Fixed a possible crash when changing **Settings > Preview Scaling**.
- Fixed a possible crash when using **Crop: Source** and **Size, Position & Rotate** filters on the same clip.
- Fixed **Size, Position & Rotate** filters not reloading.
- Fixed reloading **Keyframes** for a filter on **Output**.
- Fixed changing **Properties > Color Range** for a clip in the **Source** player.
- Fixed playhead moves to the beginning of the **Timeline** when dragging an image from **Source**.
- Fixed a proxy may used instead of the original when dropping from file manager to **Timeline**.
- Fixed **Fade In/Out** on **Timeline** may add filters in wrong order.
- Fixed a crash trying to make thumbnail for an invalid playlist item when loading a project.
- Fixed **Playlist > Play After Open** not working.
- Fixed missing proxies not generated for an opened project when **Settings > Proxy > Use Proxy** turned on.
- Fixed **File > Export EDL** creates empty file.

#### Recent Bugs

- Fixed **Center bias** in **Crop: Source** filter.
- Fixed a crash using **Mask: From File** and **Size, Position & Rotate** filters on the same color clip.
- Fixed a possible crash when changing **Settings > Theme**.
- Fixed **Mask: Simple Shape** moves when deleting all keyframes: no longer allowed to delete the last keyframe; use
  the keyframe toggle button in the parameters area of **Filters**.
- Fixed maintaining the image center when reset **Size, Position & Rotate > Zoom**.
- Improved using the mouse wheel to zoom in **Size, Position & Rotate** filter.
- Improved the range of the new **Zoom keyframe values** when keyframes are changed or removed.
- Fixed custom **Export** preset may load with incorrect frame rate.
- Fixed a crash when a **Stabilize** analysis (.stab) file fails to open.
- Fixed a crash when **Stabilize > Accuracy** is 9 or higher.

#### Old Bugs

- Fixed the **Export > H.264 High Profile** preset was producing main profile on NVIDIA.
- Fixed a crash when using **Paste** after a **File > Close** or **File > New**.
- Fixed a **Project name** with a slash is accepted but fails.
- Fixed **Playlist > Replace** may replaced with timeline and appear as `<tractor>` and cause a crash if the **Project**
  player it active.
- Fixed inconsistent handling of keyframes when splitting a trimming a clip.
- Fixed high CPU usage and a long wait after multiple **Stabilize** analysis jobs.
- Fixed remembering the last-opened folder when choosing **Properties > Video > Custom...** for a transition with video
  filter **Mask: From File > File > Custom...**.
