---
layout: post
title: "New Version 21.05.01: Time Remap"
author: Dan Dennedy
category: blog
---

Version 21.05.01 is now available for [**DOWNLOAD**](https://github.com/mltframework/shotcut/releases/tag/v21.05.01)!

#### WARNING

Projects created with this version can **NOT** be directly loaded by a **previous** version. Only versions 21.02 and
21.03 can **repair** projects created in this version by removing all Time Remap filters.

#### Time Remap and Speed Ramping!


Usage requires knowledge of how to use **Keyframes**. Basic, quick-start usage is **Filters > Time > Time Remap > Keyframes**.
Go to this [forum post](https://forum.shotcut.org/t/v21-04-alpha-unstable-time-remap/25028) for more usage information.

- If you try to use it on a video clip with B-frames (a video encoding technology) Shotcut will show
  the **Convert to Edit-friendly...** dialog.
- This filter cannot be disabled.
- This filter does not support simple keyframes or filter trimming.
- This filter can not be applied to tracks or the timeline output.
- Disabled Smooth keyframes for Time Remap to prevent unexpected direction changes.

#### Apple Silicon (M1) a.k.a. ARM64

We now have a native (not using Rosetta 2) build working on Apple M1 devices! This is not yet a universal app, maybe
later in the year for that. This build does not support JACK Audio. Get
[`shotcut-macos-ARM64-210501.dmg`](https://github.com/mltframework/shotcut/releases/download/v21.05.01/shotcut-macos-ARM64-210501.dmg).

#### New

- Added a new filter **Time Remap** in the new **Time** category that affects both audio and video.
- Added an Apple Silicon build.
- Added an option to **Ignore** missing files in **Export > Export File** (blocking dialog added in v21.01).
- Added a suggested file name to **File > Export Frame...** and remembers the last chosen format. These changes make
  this feature more convenient.
- Added a button in the **Keyframes** parameter track header to vertically zoom in to the minimum and maximumn values.
- Added a **Use Sub-clip** checkbox to the **Convert to Edit-friendly** dialog, under **Advanced**. This will convert
  only the trimmed portion of a clip plus up to 15 seconds before the in point and after the out point for a timeline
  clip. When this is on, only the selected clip is replaced and not every clip based on the same source. This option
  is especially convenient for use with **Time Remap** in which case it defaults to on if the clip has been trimmed.
- Added a **Keep Advanced open** checkbox to the **Convert to Edit-friendly** dialog that remembers your choice between
  sessions.
- Added a status message tip about useful keyboard modifiers to use when dragging keyframes.
- Added the display of minimum, maximum, and midpoint values to the vertical axis of curved parameters in **Keyframes**.

#### Changes

- Improved the sound quality for **Properties > Pitch Compensation** when **Speed** is between 0.5 and 2.0.
- Changed **Keyframes** when trimming a clip or filter to move, delete, or disable full keyframes.
- Upgraded FFmpeg to version 4.3.2
- Upgraded Rubberband (pitch) to version 1.9.1
- Upgraded MLT (engine) to pre-release version 7.0.0
- Improved the color accuracy of the video preview.
- Converted all numeric text fields in filters to spinners.
- Reduced memory in audio resampler per clip.

#### Fixes

- Fixed black frames in slideshow (broken in v21.02).
- Fixed **Export Frame** dialog reappears (broken in v21.02).
- Fixed **Opacity** filter may misbehave when using all smooth keyframes.
- Fixed **Export > Format** = `flac` does not write a file with a duration.
- Fixed using the mouse wheel over zoom sliders in **Timeline** and **Keyframes**.
- Fixed an incorrect path to a file in proxy mode when the path starts with the name of a sibling folder.
- Fixed converting non-animated **Text: HTML** to **Text: Rich**.
- Fixed filter values do not update when moving keyframes.
- Fixed waveform after adding a transition by drag a clip to the left.
- Fixed showing `<tractor>` or `blank` as a missing file.
- Fixed a possible crash on setting **Properties > Speed** higher than 23x.
- Fixed a possible infinite loop in **Pitch** audio filter or **Properties > Pitch Compensation**.
- Fixed disabling **Keyframes** toolbar buttons for trim and simple keyframes if they are not supported.
- Fixed a custom export preset may not include attributes of the video mode
- Fixed video glitches using multiple **Text: Rich** filters with **Export > Video > Parallel processing**.
- Fixed **Undo** after using the ripple trim in shortcut (broken in v21.03).
- Fixed applying a custom preset for the **Contrast** video filter.
- Fixed the **Timeline** ruler may be incorrect after starting a new project in the same session.
- Fixed some filters may get lost after **Undo** a **Split** operation.
- Added a context menu to **Text: Simple** and all numeric spinners (broken in v21.02).
- Fixed changing **Properties** on a timeline clip moved to another track overwrites **Playlist** items.
- Fixed **Properties > Repeat** for an image sequence.
- Fixed a crash changing the **Size, Position & Rotate** after applying a shake preset.
- Fixed a possible deadlock changing **Properties > Speed** when **Video Mode** is NOT **Automatic**.
- Fixed disabling keyboard shortcuts for disabled filter trimming and simple keyframe actions.
- Do not let a keyframe be placed beyond the end of a clip.
- Fixed PNG and GIF as album art in music or poster image (previously only JPEG).
- Fixed **Detach Audio** might go to a hidden video track.
- Fixed updating the clip name in **Playlist** and **Timeline** with its speed when changing **Properties > Speed**.
- Fixed a rounding error in aspect ratio of a custom video mode that could cause problems on certain resolutions. 
- Fixed showing a non-functional keyboard shortcut <kbd>X</kbd> in the context menu for a blank region of the **Timeline**.
