---
layout: post
title: "New Version 21.08.29"
author: Dan Dennedy
category: blog
---

Version 21.08.29 is now available for [**DOWNLOAD**](https://github.com/mltframework/shotcut/releases/tag/v21.08.29)!

#### New

- Added support for **WebP** export with presets for still sequence and animation.
- Added **Properties > Measure Video Quality...** using
  [**VMAF**](https://netflixtechblog.com/toward-a-practical-perceptual-video-quality-metric-653f208b9652).
- Added a new video filter **GPS Text** (contributed by Daniel F).
- Added a new video filter **Reflect**.
- Added a new **Deband** video filter (contributed by Austin B).
- Added a warning dialog before **File > Export Frame...** from a proxy file.
- Added support for keyframes to **Mask: Simple Shape > Rotation**.
- Added support for the operating system clipboard when copying and pasting filters.
- Added support for the operating system clipboard when cut, copy, paste, overwrite or append a clip.
- Added a dialog when **Timeline > Track Operations > Insert Track** on the top audio track to choose audio or video.
- Added handles to the sides of the rectangle on-screen control (VUI) (contributed by TRA).

#### Changes

- Changed the storage for thumbnails and waveforms to use files instead of database.
- Changed **Time Remap** to limit input values to the maximum duration of the clip.
- Changed to set the file date on proxy files to match original file.
- Improved reliability of **Time Remap** status/feedback info.
- Improved the speed setting in the **Time Remap** filter with an option to either modify or lock the input time.
- Improved player grid display and snapping when zoomed.
- Improved image sequence if there is a numeric filename discontinuity or rollover to > 0.

#### Fixes

- Fixed possible crash when using **Audio Waveform Visualization** filter.
- Fixed **Mask: From File > Custom...** might lose track of its file.
- Fixed **Text: Simple > File date** broken in v21.05.
- Fixed **Timer** filter's new **Speed** parameter not scaling **Duration**.
- Fixed a possible crash reading a YUV 4:2:2 uncompressed video.
- Fixed some clips' duration in project XML saved in frame units instead of seconds.
- Fixed **Timer** start and end buttons when filter in point is set.
- Fixed quality/rate control with `libx264rgb` in **Export > Codec**.
- Fixed undo simple keyframes  in **Size, Position & Rotate** turned on advanced keyframes.
- Fixed undo followed by redo when trimming clips on **Timeline** may not be correct.
- Fixed a crash moving multiple clips to the beginning with **Ripple All Tracks** on.
- Fixed changing **Time Remap > Enable pitch compensation** in disables **Zoom keyframe Values**.
- Fixed file paths with special characters not working in filters such as **Mask: From File**.
- Fixed exported HEVC MP4 and MOV files are not playable with macOS QuickTime Player or iOS.
- Fixed **Properties > Reset** for an image.
- Fixed a possible crash when a transition is removed during trimming on the **Timeline**.
- Fixed keyframes may be dragged past another.
- Fixed **Time Remap** filter may cause image artifact when using **Export > Parallel processing**.
- Fixed **Properties > Extract Sub-clip...** on GoPro videos or other videos with non-muxable data
  track.
- Fixed **Stabilize** video gives incorrect results after splitting or trimming clip.
- Fixed a crash when dragging multiple clips with variable frame rate to timeline.
- Fixed the timeline playhead could go beyond the end of the timeline.
- Fixed opening a project starts paused on the second frame instead of the first.

#### Note

Please be aware there will be a one-time conversion of cached thumbnails and waveform data when you first run this
version. The old database will be kept so if you downgrade or run an older version you still have that older cache to
rely on. You can remove either `db.sqlite3` (old) or `thumbnails` (new) in the app data directory to cleanup the old
cache or to re-run the conversion to the new file-based cache.
