---
layout: post
title: "New Version 22.09: Action Search &amp; Editable Shortcuts"
author: Dan Dennedy
category: blog
---

Version 22.09.23 is now available for [**DOWNLOAD**]({{ "/download/" | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }})!

#### Action Search and Editable Shortcuts

This new feature provides a unified action search and shortcut editor. Action search makes it quickly to find and
execute a command. It also provides a keyboard shortcut reference and lets you add or change shortcuts - all in one!

  - Replaces the old **Keyboard Shortcuts...** item in the **Help** menu and takes its keyboard shortcut <kbd>?</kbd>.
  - <kbd>/</kbd> is also a default shortcut, and either shortcut can be changed.
  - Searches both action name and shortcut.
  - Press <kbd>Return</kbd>/<kbd>Enter</kbd> within the **search** box to move focus to the list of actions.
  - Press <kbd>Return</kbd>/<kbd>Enter</kbd> on a selected **Action** to trigger it and close the dialog.
  - <kbd>Shift</kbd>, <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>, or <kbd>Alt</kbd> + <kbd>Return</kbd>/<kbd>Enter</kbd> on a selected action to
    trigger it and NOT close the dialog.
  - Double-click an action to trigger it but NOT close the dialog.
  - The dialog is not modal so you can leave it open and to the side while working.
  - Press <kbd>Esc</kbd> when the dialog has focus to close it.
  - Press <kbd>F2</kbd> when an action is selected to edit its first shortcut.
  - Single-click a selected shortcut to enter edit mouse using the mouse. This means you typically need two single
    clicks: one to select, the second to enter into edit mode.
  - You can <kbd>Tab</kbd> out of edit mode to navigate focus to the apply button and press <kbd>Space</kbd> to
    trigger the apply. It is intentional that you cannot assign <kbd>Tab</kbd> as a keyboard shortcut to an action.
  - There are some keyboard buttons such as J/K/L that are reserved and cannot be used in a shortcut.
    You will see an error message when you try to apply it.
  - You can define up to 2 shortcuts per action! You may want to leave the default as well as add your preferred shortcut.
  - A big portion of the UI had to be rewritten to support this. As a result:
    - All panel (hamburger) menus are consistently on the left/first.
    - Panel-specific Options sub-menus were moved to **Settings** main menu.
    - The keyboard shortcut to switch the player between **Source** and **Project** is now <kbd>P</kbd>.
    - The default shortcuts to change the current track now require <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Alt</kbd> in addition to
      cursor up and down.
    - Various hidden or under-exposed actions now have a menu item somewhere including a new **Player** main menu.
    - Many translations will be lost.

#### Transition Preview and Improved Custom Transitions

  - There is a folder now in the App Data Directory named `transitions` where you can store these.
  - All files in the `transitions` folder are listed in transition **Properties**, the **Mask: From File** video filter,
    and the **Slideshow Generator** dialog.
  - Added a favorite button in transition **Properties** and **Mask: From File** that copies your chosen custom file to
    the `transitions` folder.
  - Added a quick preview to transition properties.
  - Added a link to our Resources web page where you can download custom transitions in **Properties**.

#### Filter Keywords and Icons

We improved the **Filters** add-filter chooser:
  - Added translatable keywords to facilitate search. For example, "transform" shows **Size, Position & Rotate**.
  - Added the English filter name in an un-translataed manner to the keywords so people using a translation can more
    more easily find things based on proliferic English advice.
  - Added animated icons to most filters to demonstrate what they do.

#### GPS Graphic Video Filter

The new **GPS Graphic** video filter draws GPS data-driven graphs, paths, and speedometers.

Also, we added the `gopro2gpx` utility to let you export a GPX file from a GoPro videe using
**Properties > menu > Export GPX**. This saves the `.gpx` in the same folder as the video file with the same name
but different exension. Then, you open this file with the **GPS Graphic** or **GPS Text** filters.

#### More New Stuff

- Added limited support for reading WebP Animation.
- Added **Fisheye** video filter (see its presets).
- Added snapping to the playhead to **Keyframes**.
- Added the ability to drag-scroll/pan using the middle mouse button (press mouse wheel) to **Timeline**,
  **Keyframes**, and the player when zoomed in.
- Added the alpha **Operation**, **Reverse**, and **Invert** parameters to the **Mask: Draw** video filter.
- Added **Settings > Reset...** to reset _all_ settings including hidden ones.

#### Fixes

- Fixed **Move Track Up** or **Move Track Down** breaks the order of blending/compositing.
- Fixed opening files with a `%` in their path or name.
- Fixed sometimes a date does not appear in **Playlist**.
- Fixed **Old Film: Scratches** video filter not working (broke in version 22.04).
- Fixed **Stabilize** video filter uses invalid analysis data after pasted.
- Fixed **File > Open MLT XML as Clip...** changes the current Video Mode.
- Fixed audio artifacts introduced after splitting a clip that has been converted or reversed using
  the **better/large/DNxHR** option.
- Fixed **Text: Rich** filter's toolbar may not reflect the current text color.

#### Changes

- Show audio-clips without album art as a checkboard for transparent instead of white.
- Upgraded FFmpeg to v5.1.0
- Upgraded dav1d AV1 decoder v1.0
- Upgraded AOM AV1 encoder to v3.4.0
- Upgraded libvpx VP8/9 encoder to v1.12.0
- Upgraded VMAF to v2.3.1
- Upgraded Glaxnimate to v0.5.1
