---
layout: post
title: "New Version 22.10"
author: Dan Dennedy
category: blog
---

Version 22.10.25 is now available for [**DOWNLOAD**]({{ "/download/" | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }})!

This is primarily a bug fix release.

### New Bugs in Previous Version 22.09.23 

- Fixed translations not updated.
- Fixed crash in **Size, Position & Rotate** filter when size approaches zero, for example when editing a size numeric field.
- Fixed bitrate in some **Export** presets such as VP8, VP9, D10, and XDCAM.
- Fixed **Timeline > Lift** and **Delete** not working with no clip selected.
- Fixed **Transition > Properties** resets the **Invert** and **Softness** options.

### Old Bugs

- Fixed an incorrect timecode appears at 2 minutes in 24 or 23.98 fps.
- Fixed **Timeline > Select Clip Above** and **Select Clip Below** not working with no clip selected.
- Fixed incorrect resulting aspect ratio when changing **Export > Video > Resolution** and pixel aspect ratio is not square.
- Fixed **Properties > Measure Video Quality** on Windows.
- Fixed **Fade Out Video** filter not working after trimming the in point.
- Fixed updating an animation **Properties > Duration** after changed in Glaxnimate.
- Fixed ripple trim on the in point of a clip that is at the very beginning (00:00:00:00) of the **Timeline**.
- Fixed adjusting keyframes of the second clip when a trimming the in point of a transition.
- Fixed **Keyframes** UI when using **Timeline > Trim Clip In** menu-item/action/shortcut (not interactive trim).
- Fixed opening a MLT XML file with a `%` in its path or name.
- Fixed keyframes after an undo and redo upon making a transition while trimming the in point of a clip.

### Improvements and Changes

- Finished the menu technology updates (marker context, rich text editor) that were mostly done in v22.09.23.
- Added icons for the 360 video filters. 
- Disallow allow adding **Filters** to a device or live input since this is not working and could interfere with integrity of capture.
- Increased the maximum values in the **Mask: Simple Shape > Horizontal** and **Vertical** video filter.
- Changing **Timeline > Zoom** no longer pauses playback.
