---
layout: post
title: "New Version 23.11: Easing for Keyframes"
author: Dan Dennedy
category: blog
---

Version 23.11.29 is now available for [**DOWNLOAD**]({{ "/download/" | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }})!

This highlight of this version is the addition of easing for keyframes: ease in, ease out, and ease in/out with different levels of acceleration and tricks like elastic and bounce. See the [Easing Functions Cheat Sheet](https://easings.net/) web page for an animated graphical overview of these behavior options.

### Improvements

- Added **Crop:Rectangle > Apply to Source** button.
  This button is only enabled when the aspect ratio of the source media matches your project's **Video Mode** because it is impossible to include the black padding that Shotcut adds to a source. This feature is the primary way to simply "crop a video." You do not need to use the timeline for this. You can simply:
1. set **Settings > Video Mode** to **Automatic**,
1. open a video file,
1.. add the **Crop: Rectangle** video filter,
1. adjust the rectangle control in the player,
1. click **Apply to Source** in the **Filters** panel,
1. choose **Yes** in the dialog asking to change the **Video Mode**, and
1. **Export**.
- Added **Opacity** to **GPS Text**, **Text: Simple**, and **Timer** filters.
- Improved performance of **Timeline > Zoom**.
- Added rectangular selection to **Timeline**.  
- Added **Settings > Timeline > Rectangle Select**.  
  This is on by default, and scrubbing with the mouse on the timeline requires clicking near the play head.
  When this is on, hold <kbd>Shift</kbd> to turn it off temporarily. When this is off, hold <kbd>Shift</kbd> to temporarily turn it on.
- Changed the **Smooth** keyframe type to avoid overshoots and cusps.  
  This only applies to new projects made with this and future versions. Thus, the behavior of smooth keyframes made with an earlier version remains the same for compatibility reasons.
- Added **Ease In**, **Ease Out**, and **Ease In/Out** to **Keyframes**.  
  This also changes the appearance of keyframes in the timeline view of **Keyframes** to make it more clear where the behavior applies - *between* keyframes. Remember this: when thinking about "in" or "out", for Shotcut "in" refers to the beginning of something - a clip, filter, or parameter between keyframes. And "out" refers to the end of something. So, this is not easing *into* a keyframe and easing *out of* a keyframe. Rather, it is easing *into* or *out of* the change/segment/span/tween of a parameter between keyframes.
- Added **Properties > View Bitrate...**.  
  If you have ever used the classic **Bitrate Viewer** for Windows and frustrated with the lack of updates or not available on your current OS, here you go.
- Added a **Track Auto Fade Video** filter. This can only be added to tracks and makes a dip to black or other color or fade in and out opacity for overlays to each clip.
- Changed **Export > Codec** and **Audio** to disable some options when a lossless-only or an intra-only codec is selected.
- Added **Settings > Timeline > Automatically Add Tracks**.  
  The defaults for this is off because adding tracks increases memory usage. Also, it does not automatically add a track if nothing is in the **Timeline** as the timeline is optional in Shotcut. Also, it does not automatically add a track when you open a project with no empty tracks. It only adds tracks when you add something to the timeline or move a clip between tracks.
- Added a button in **Filters** to save a filter set and change the **Copy checked filters** button to not show a dialog.
- Added **Filters > Set > Glow Intensity**.  
  This demonstrates how you can mix a filtered output with the input to reduce it.
  Also, change the **Mask: From File > Treshold** to do a side-by-side comparison with and without the filter.
- Added **Split at Playhead** back into the timeline clip context menu.
- Changed the **Save** option in the low memory dialog to perform a backup and save to prevent breaking projects.
- Added support for `av1_nvenc` NVIDIA AV1 hardware encoder on Windows and Linux.
- Upgraded MLT to version 7.22.0.
 
### New Bugs

- Fixed honoring the "Do not show this anymore" checkbox in the **Convert to Edit-friendly** dialog (configuration key `showConvertClipDialog`) (broke in v23.09).
- Fixed the new batch convert dialog (**View > Resources**) appeared instead of the old **Convert to Edit-friendly** one when dragging a *single* concerning clip to **Playlist** or **Timeline** (broke in v23.09).
- Fixed **Motion Tracker** filters are forgotten upon switching to **Source** player (broke in v23.09).
- Fixed **Mask: Simple Shape > Softness** not working on macOS (broke in v23.05).
- Fixed saving a favorite for **Filters > + > Sets**.
- Fixed **Timeline** appears all white on Qt 6.6.
- Fixed libvpx security vulnerability CVE-2023-5217.
- Fixed libwebp security vulnerability CVE-2023-4863.

### Old Bugs

- Fixed **Text: Simple > #createdate#** keyword deletes preceding text.
- Fixed a crash when opening **View > Scopes > Audio Loudness**.
- Fixed marker at start of the next clip was deleted when using **Timeline > Edit > Ripple Trim Clip Out**.
- Fixed **Properties > Transition** changes were lost when **Undo** after trimming a clip's out point on the **Timeline**.
- Fixed a crash when **Undo** after trimming a transition that resulted in a new transition.
  With this fix Shotcut no longer permits creating a new transition within the same mouse drag that removes a transition.
- Fixed AMD (AMF) quality options in a saved **Export** preset shows up in the **Other** tab overriding **Codec > Quality**.
- Fixed YouTube export preset is not H.264 high profile with some hardware encoders.
- Fixed a memory leak when using YADIF deinterlacers.
- Fixed color of export from still images when using full range and `pix_fmt=yuv444p`.
