---
layout: post
title: "New Version 23.12: Fight the Good Fight"
author: Dan Dennedy
category: blog
---

Version 23.12.15 is now available for [**DOWNLOAD**]({{ "/download/" | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }})!

This is release is a small collection of fixes and upgrades.

- Fixed crash on start on Wayland on Ubuntu 22.04 and 23.10 - may require installing `qt6-wayland` (broke in v23.11).  
  This breaks support for Wayland on Ubuntu 23.04, which is a less important version than the other two.
  The combination of Wayland and Qt 6 seems impossible to handle universally in the portable/AppImage/Snap binary bundle. If installing a Qt 6 Wayland package does not work in your distro, some options are to login using an X session instead of Wayland or try the Flatpak.
- Fixed numerous audio filters missing on macOS/Intel (broke in v23.11).
- Fixed crash in **No Sync** video filter with new **Ease Back** and **Ease Elastic** keyframes.
- Fixed **Equalizer: Parametric > Preset** not loading (broke in v23.09).
- Fixed **Slideshow Generator** not padding videos on mismatching aspect ratio (broke in v23.09).
- Fixed **Timeline** waveform is not updated when changing **Properties > Audio > Track**.
- Fixed `#filename#` and `#basename#` keywords in **Text: Simple** video filter with non-ASCII filenames on Windows.
- Fixed **Properties > View Bitrate** opens too big on high DPI screen.
- Fixed **Properties > View Bitrate > Save** image is not anti-aliased.
- Fixed **Properties > Measure Video Quality** accuracy when **Color range** is **Full**.
- Fixed some minor memory leaks.
- Changed all NVENC hardware encoders in **Export** to use CQ instead of constant QP for VBR rate control.
- Ugraded FFmpeg to version 6.1
- Upgraded AV1 decoder `dav1d` to version 1.3.0 and AV1 encoder `libaom-av1` to version 3.8.0
- Upgraded `rubberband` audio pitch library to version 3.3.0

