---
layout: post
title: "New Version 24.02: Go Where You Wanna Go"
author: Dan Dennedy
category: blog
---

Version 24.02.29 is now available for [**DOWNLOAD**]({{ "/download/" | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }})!

### Ambisonic Audio

Ambisonic spatial (spherical) audio is often used with 360&deg; video whether output as spherical or reframed to a rectangle. Adding support for Ambisonic facilitates 360&deg; video workflows with Shotcut.

But also the new **Ambisonic Decoder** audio filter is part of an affordable, simple way to record (e.g. GoPro MAX, Zoom H3-VR) Ambisonic audio and convert it to 5.1 surround. FYI, [YouTube supports 5.1 surround](https://support.google.com/youtube/answer/11904456)
on most TV-oriented devices (smart TVs, streaming boxes, game consoles). And Windows has something called
[Sonic](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/how-to-turn-on-spatial-sound-in-windows-10-ca2700a0-6519-448d-5434-56f499d59c96)
to listen to surround through headphones. The new filter can also be used to listen to Ambisonic through headphones (binaural), to rotate the sound when you rotate spherical video, and to pan stereo or surround audio output for reframed 360&deg; video. For example:

<iframe allowfullscreen="1" frameborder="0" width="640" height="360" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/t2ANw_xcCWE"></iframe>

- Added **Settings > Audio Channels > 4 (quad/Ambisonics)**.
- Added **Ambisonic Decoder** audio filter that converts to binaural, stereo, quad, Ambisonic, or 5.1 surround. When Ambisonic mode is chosen, it is an Ambisonic panner.
- Added Ambisonic metadata to **Set Equirectangular** if there is a track with 4 audio channels.
- Added **Copy Parameters** to 360 video filters to use with **Ambisonic Decoder > Paste Parameters**.
- Shotcut only supports first order Ambisonics at this time.

### More New Stuff

- Added support for AMD AV1 hardware encoder on Windows (`av1_amf`) and Linux (`av1_vaapi`).
- Added automatic vertical scrolling to **Timeline** when moving a track.
- Added changing **Properties > Duration** on image clips on the **Timeline** (behavior depends on **Ripple** similar to changing **Properties > Speed** on an audio/video clip).
 

### Fixes and Changes

- Upgraded macOS and Windows to Qt version 6.5.3, which changes the mininum macOS version to 11.
- Stop automatically grouping audio/video clips when **Detach Audio** (changed in v24.01).
- Improved selection in **Timeline** after various operations.
- Improved behavior changing **Properties > Speed** with **Timeline > Ripple** on.
- Improved the speed of opening a timeline project.
- Fixed **Filters > + > Sets** adds audio filters in reverse order (broke in v24.01).
- Fixed **Properties > Convert** HLG HDR to to Rec. 709 SDR is not tone-mapping (broke in v23.09).
- Fixed distortion caused by **Mixdown** audio filter.
- Fixed **Normalize: One Pass** audio filter maximizing levels at start of playback.
- Fixed old custom presets in text and timer video filters load with 0% opacity.
- Fixed **Loop Selection** on the last clip of **Timeline** not looping.
- Fixed **Enter Full Screen** and **Preferences** shortcuts on macOS.
- Fixed problematic filename characters in **Settings > Video Mode > Custom Add**.
- Fixed disabling the last audio or video filter when there is a time filter in **Filters**.
- Fixed **File > Exit** is slow or hangs if a job in **Jobs** is paused.
- Fixed **Wave** video filter distorts if **Settings > Preview Scaling** is on.
- Fixed incorrect gamma in preview player and **File > Export > Frame** when **GPU Effects** is on.
