---
layout: post
title: "New Version 24.01: Round and Round"
author: Dan Dennedy
category: blog
---

Version 24.01.28 is now available for [**DOWNLOAD**]({{ "/download/" | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }})!

### New Stuff

- Added **Player > Loop** (<kbd>\\</kbd>) and **Player > Set Loop Range** to the menu and player controls.
- Added **Timeline > Selection > Group/Ungroup** (<kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>G</kbd>, <kbd>command</kbd>+<kbd>G</kbd> on macOS).
  This is basically a saved multi-selection system. So, the operations it supports are all those available for multiple selection. That does not include trim, **Filters**, or **Properties** at this time.
- Added support for multiple selection to **Split At Playhead**.
- Added **Timeline > Edit > Split All Tracks At Playhead** (<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>S</kbd>).
- Added **Edit > Undo** and **Redo** support for adding, removing, changing, and disabling **Filters**.
- Added **Timeline > Edit > Nudge Forward** (<kbd>.</kbd>) and **Nudge Backward** (<kbd>,</kbd>).
- Added **Pause** and **Resume** to the context menu in **Jobs**.
- Added **Settings > Backup** with options for:
  - **Manually**
  - **Hourly**
  - **Daily** (default)
  - **Weekly**
  This creates a backup of the current project file in a manner similar to **File > Backup and Save** except it is automatic now unless **Manually** is chosen.
- Added **File > Other Versions** submenu that tries to find similarly-named project files in the same folder create by Shotcut backup or recovery mechanisms.
- Added **Settings > Player > Audio API** on Linux and Windows.
  Basically, this makes the `--SDL_AUDIODRIVER` command line option available in the **Settings** menu.
- Added a **Previous** button to **View > Application Log** dialog that goes to the log file created by the previous app session.
  Now, on startup, Shotcut makes a backup of `shotcut-log.txt` to `shotcut-log.bak`.
- Added a **Copy** button to all text viewer dialogs that does the same thing that the non-obvious Select All and Copy actions in the context menu.

### Fixes and Changes

- Fixed a possible crash when opening project.
- Fixed a crash in **Playlist > menu > Add Selected to Slidewhow** when something is playing.
- Fixed a possible crash in **Timeline > Split** or trim actions if the clip has certain filters with keyframes.
- Fixed some bugs in **Undo** after moving clips on the **Timeline**.
- Fixed sometimes (25 fps) frames are dropped and others repeated in **Export** on macOS.
- Fixed proxy generation failing with NVENC if **Settings > Proxy > Use Hardware Encoder** is on.
- Fixed proxy generation failing for videos with full range color on macOS with **Settings > Proxy > Use Hardware Encoder** turned on.
- Fixed 10-bit **Export** with NVENC (NVIDIA) encoders.
- Fixed **Layers > New > Emoji** is disabled in Glaxnimate on Windows.
- Fixed distort mode in **Size & Position** GPU filter.
- Fixed zombie values in **Time Remap** filter while working with keyframes.
- Fixed saving B frames in custom **Export** preset with hardware encoder.
- Fixed toggling **Export > Use hardware encoder** resets all options to defaults.
- Fixed **Export > Each Playlist Item > Directory** incorrectly shows a filename.
- Fixed intermittent crash moving a clip on the **Timeline**.
- Fixed **Playlist > Select All** and **Remove All** are disabled until selection changes.
- Fixed some filter parameters' sliders may overflow using new keyframe easings that over- or under-shoot.
- Changed the name of the **Declick** time filter to **Declick Audio**.
- Changed the player controls to automatically adapt to 2 rows so the **In Point** and **Selected Duration** show more reliably.
- Changed the low memory warning dialog to automatically close itself when the free memory becomes high enough.
- Changed the low memory detection to automatically pause and resume a currently running job as the free memory becomes too low and then high enough again.
- Changed **Timeline > Detach Audio** to automatically create a group.
- Changed the **Jobs** log viewer to automatically and scroll to the end if it is left open while a job is running.
- Changed the **Slideshow Generator** to remember all options.
- Changed the splitter between UI panels to be easier to find and grab to drag.
